We've now got all four of our different primary route handlers put together.
We're now going to go back into our current user route handler.
We're going to take a look at some of the logic inside of here and start to extract it into two separate
middleware.
So let me tell you exactly why we're going to do this.
At some point in time, we're going to have some other services running inside of our project.
Right now we only have service, but at some point we will also have users, tickets, orders, whatever
else and all these other services we put together.
We are going to inevitably, at some point in time, have some income and request from a user who may
or may not be logged in to things that we're almost definitely going to have to do at some point in
time is check to see whether or not that user is logged in and if they are not.
We are probably going to want to prevent access to some given route handler.
The other thing that we are just about definitely going to have to do is take the information out of
the JSON Web token payload and set it on recurrent user.
There's nothing special about recurrent user.
This is just a very common property to use.
Any time that you want to present some information about the current user and get access to it inside
of our root handler.
So again, these are two middle wears that we're just about definitely going to want to have at some
point in time.
So we might as well create them right now as long as we are handling all this authentication stuff and
we've got this idea of JSON Web tokens fresh in our minds.
So in this video and the next one or two, let's create these two middleware.
We're going to first create the middleware that's just going to extract information out of that payload
and set it on recurrent user so that it can be can be consumed by further handlers or middleware down
our chain.
Okay.
So back inside, my editor, I'm going to find that middleware directory once again.
And we're going to create a new file inside there.
Called current user.
It's.
And then inside of here, we're going to add in one or two imports at the top and then set up the middleware
function.
So I'm going to import request response.
And the next function that types from Express.
I'm also going to import JWT from JSON web token because of course we are going to want to decode our
JSON Web token at some point.
Then we'll go ahead and export a new function called current user.
This thing is going to take some number of arguments because this is not an error handling middleware.
It's going to take three arguments of rec, rez and next.
So we will put those arguments in and annotate each of them as well.
So rec is of type request, rez is of type response and next is of type next function like so.
So inside of here, what we want to do is pretty straightforward.
We are only trying to figure out whether or not the user is logged in and if they are, we want to extract
information out of that payload and set it on recurrent user.
And again, there's nothing special about that current user property.
It's just a very common property to set to describe who the current user is inside of an express application.
If the user is not logged in, we are not going to throw in air or anything like that.
That is going to be the job of the other middleware we are going to put together.
So the only job of this one is to say, hey, if you're logged in, I'm going to extract information
on that payload and set it on this given property.
All right.
So we will first put together a quick check to decide whether or not the user has a JSON Web token.
And this is going to end up being very similar to the logic we had put together back over here inside
of our current user handler.
So we're going to say if.
There is no session object.
So remember, that's why we've got that little exclamation.
Or if there is no JWT property.
So remember that little question mark right there is going to get TypeScript to kind of expand this
entire statement into two separate checks.
We're going to first make sure that session is defined.
And if it is, then we will try to access the JWT property.
So if we do not have a session object or if JWT is not defined, we want to return and move on to the
next middleware inside of our chain.
So we will put inside a return next like so.
Then if we get past that point, we're going to want to decode the JSON Web token once again, very
similar to what we did back inside of current user.
If there's anything wrong with the decoding process, we're going to probably want to make sure that
we capture that error and send back or continue on saying, Oh, well, the user must not be logged
in.
So I'm going to add in a try.
Atch statement.
Inside of the try.
We will try to get the payload out of that JSON web token.
So remember how we do that.
We call JWT Verify.
We will pass in the JSON web token which is REQ session JWT.
And then the second argument is going to be our actual token.
Which is process and v.
JWT ki.
Once again, we've gone over this three times.
TypeScript thinks that this variable might be undefined, but we already did a check for that back inside
of our index file.
So we're going to put the exclamation on there to just say, Hey, TypeScript, don't sweat it.
This thing is defined.
Now, if anything goes wrong with trying to extract the information that we will add end up inside of
our catch statement.
So we could put in a next right here to just try to continue on.
But it turns out that no matter what, whether or not this thing throws an error, we really want to
call next to continue on to our next middleware.
So we don't necessarily have to put that inside the catch statement.
Instead, we can just add it in right after like so because again, whether or not we decode that token
successfully, we always want to continue on to the next middleware.
So now that we've got that payload.
We need to actually set it on our request object.
Again, we are setting on the request object.
So for their middle wears or other route handlers down this chain can figure out automatically who the
current user is.
So what we would like to do is rec current user is payload.
That would be ideal.
But as soon as we do that we get an error from TypeScript.
Script is saying Hey, there's no current user property on a request object.
So turns out that this is going to be just a little bit harder to do than we might have expected.
You and I want to add in a new property to an existing object type that is already defined inside of
a type definition file.
And as far as type script is concerned, we cannot just arbitrarily add in new properties.
So we need to figure out some way to tell TypeScript, Hey, don't sweat it.
It is okay.
There actually is a current user property for a request object.
So we're going have to figure out how to work with TypeScript a little bit more closely and tell it
that it is okay that we are adding in this additional property.
Let's take a pause right here and then tackle that in just a moment.